OSDOCS#11840: about disconnected env page (#83907)
openshift/openshift-docs: disconnected/about.adoc

|====
|Term |Description

|Air-gapped network
|An environment or network that is completely isolated from an external network.

This isolation depends on a physical separation, or an "air gap", between machines on the internal network and any other part of an external network.
Air-gapped environments are often used in industries with strict security or regulatory requirements.

|Disconnected environment
|An environment or network that has some level of isolation from an external network.

This isolation could be enabled by physical or logical separation between machines on the internal network and an external network.
Regardless of the level of isolation from the external network, a cluster in a disconnected environment does not have access to public services hosted by Red{nbsp}Hat and requires additional setup to maintain full cluster functionality.

|Restricted Network
|An environment or network with limited connection to an external network.

A physical connection may exist between machines on the internal network and an external network, but network traffic is limited by additional configurations, such as with firewalls and proxies.
|====

[id="preferred-methods_{context}"]

> == Preferred methods for working with disconnected environments

Reviewer: can we say "recommended"?

// Not sure about the heading above, I'm trying to find some phrasing that basically says "You should probably use these things if you don't have a strong reason to go with other options".

You can choose between multiple options for most aspects of managing a cluster in a disconnected environment.
For example, when mirroring images you can choose between using the oc-mirror {oc-first} plugin or using the `oc adm` command.

> However, some options provide a simpler and more convenient user experience for disconnected environments, and are the preferred method over their alternatives.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, some options provide a less complex user experience for disconnected environments which are also supported by Red Hat Technical Support.
```

Reviewer 2: ONLY a suggestion. I'm kinda pushing the envelope here, but I think it gets you where you want to be with this - you need something stronger than "preferred" and I agree. WHO "prefers" is the question I think a customer might have, and "why do I care"? I think you need to make the customer care enough to follow the recommendation.

Reviewer 2: @skopacz1 I've finished peer review. Highly polished work sir, as always, my compliments to the chef. :+1:

Reviewer 2: I weighed in on your need to improve over the term "recommended". I agree with your desire to do so and provided a suggestion for your consideration. Otherwise, LGTM sir.

Reviewer 2: BTW: vale flagged the word "may", and asked us to change it to "might", but I disagree and believe it is appropriate in the way you have used it.

Author: This overall section is tricky because some SSG rule tells us to avoid using "recommended" and to just tell the user to do the preferred thing. But in this case, there are legitimate use cases for the "less recommended" methods and we can't explicitly steer them away from those.

I see what your suggestion does about calling it less complex and that might be a good choice. That said, in this context I'm not worried about mentioning the supportability since I feel like that's already implied by the inclusion of these methods in the docs + suggesting them explicitly.

I'll think about these suggestions and see if I should include them in this doc, thanks!

> Unless your organizational needs require you to choose another option, use the following methods for mirroring images, installing your cluster, and updating your cluster:

Reviewer 3: Can I think of `Restricted Network` is a type of  `Disconnected environment`? If yes, maybe firewalls and proxies is some alternative method to mirror images. But from the document here, sounds like whatever "Air-gapped network" or "Restricted Network" we always recommend the mirror-images methods.

Reviewer 4: And another issue found here is, actually in our current doc, such as for https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/disconnected/installing.html , in the title we name the installation method that requires mirror image as `Installing a cluster in a disconnected environment `, but in the following chapters, they're all saying restricted network, like:
```
[Installing a cluster on Azure in a restricted network](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/installing/installing_azure/ipi/installing-restricted-networks-azure-installer-provisioned.html#installing-restricted-networks-azure-installer-provisioned)
```

Reviewer: @gpei thanks for calling this out, I am standardizing all the names to "disconnected environment" in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSDOCS-11846

Reviewer 5: "Restricted network" isn't a term that users use but that we (RH) added to be precise with the language, but for clarity we want to use "disconnected networks". In this last link from Seb we can see the term "partially disconnected network". We could optionally use it to refer to restricted networks too. Wrt giving examples IIRC you already wrote an intro mentioning that restricted networks make use of proxies or firewalls so I don't think we have to do again here.

> * Mirror your images using the xref:../disconnected/mirroring/installing-mirroring-disconnected.adoc#installing-mirroring-disconnected[oc-mirror plugin].

Reviewer 6: @skopacz1 Can you confirm the v2 GA and deprecation of oc adm release timelines? If they are targeted for 4.18, we can simplify this effort by simply highlighting the deprecation notices

Reviewer 5: In the works but 4.18 is targeted. See https://github.com/openshift/oc-mirror/pull/946

Author: @jianlinliu oc-mirror v1 is currently GA and is the preferred choice, at least according to what I've heard. It's just that an improved v2 is set to GA in 4.18.

I think that when v2 becomes GA I will specify that here, otherwise I have to mention v1 for now

Reviewer 5: Correct, oc-mirror v1 is supported but will be deprecated eventually, and we want oc-mirror v2 to be used instead once it GAs in 4.18.
